The next topic we're going to discuss is strings.
So this is kind of one of the food topics of Indo-U.S. drinks.
We'll look at a few questions related to strength in this step.
So one of the favorite topics to discuss is immutability immutability of strings are all strings immutable.
Yes.
What does immutability mean as we look at the case of wrapper classes for an immutable class.
Any instances of that particular class once you have created an object its value cannot be changed.
So basically what it means is that once a String object is created you can never modify the value of
that particular object.
So you might ask.
I have a.
Can't get better.
Inside the string.
So an instance of string I can call the concat method.
Is it not really concatenating that value to this value and changing the value inside that.
The answer to that is no.
What this string does can get method does is actually create a new string with the concatenated value
what the list link reference contains the value for value 1 what with string reference contain the value
of value to the string object which contains the value of all to they would remain containing the same
values.
What would be created is a new instance or a new instance of string which would have the value value
1 or 2.
So that would be a new instance which would be created but the existing value of string theory would
remain valuable.
I'm opening up the jar that Langland string class and looking at the different method which are present
in here.
If you look at all the methods which are present in the String class the one to which we typically use
to modify or one to which we think would be typically used to modify the string cutesie can get it returned
a string back replace returned a string back so the original string will not be changed or neutering
will be created and that would be returned back.
Same with substring it would only create a new string with that substring and it and it back the ordinal
value of the string remained unchanged.
Same is the case with two lowercase and two uppercase methods which are pleasant right below.
So if you look at all the methods which are there to modify the string values they don't really modified
the string value.
They would just create a new string with the changed value and return that back the original string
which you would pass to that particular string on which that particular method is in or will remain
unchanged.
This is because this string objects are immutable.
You can never change the value of a string variable or a string object once it's created.
You can change references but the actual object.
You'll never be able to change the next thing we want to discuss is where the string values actually
stored in memory.
This is a tricky question because this is quite variable with different versions of Java so with different
versions of that Jodi has been changing the answer which I'm giving would be particular to Jawa 7 and
I guess it would remain the same in later versions of Java but I've never.
I can never be sure the way the string variables are stored or just string values are stored is basically
when you are creating something like this.
We are using something called a value.
So this would actually be stored in something called String constant pool.
The string constant pull is present inside the heap memory.
What it does what the compiler does it looks for this industry in constant pull if it exists.
It is actually used.
So for example if I'm creating another way people by the name string file is equal to value then what
would happen is the existing value from the string constant pull is reduced.
However if I'm using a new string then this would definitely create a string object on the heap.
It would not try to use the value.
What it does is it would try and create.
It would definitely create a new object and put it on the heap.
So these are the two approaches and always you'd prefer to not use a new string with a string because
you'd want to use them a number of time.
You'd hear about not using a string concatenation operator in loops.
Why the reason why you don't want to use the string concatenation operator or even for that matter string
dark concat method is because each time you do a concatenation you're creating a new object.
So for example in this particular loop that we are looking at here this loop is running for almost a
hundred thousand times or if you are an Indian IT running for an lactamase for each of those 100000
times what we're doing is we are creating new objects.
So we're creating actually more than hundred thousand string literals in here.
That's it.
So you are creating 100000 objects and adding adding adding to it.
So this basically creates about 100000 objects which is really a lot of objects.
So that's the reason why when you're looping in when you're looping or you are modifying a lot of string
values in a loop.
It's recommended that you go and use a string builder or a string buffer depending on your kind of situations.
So string is not a good idea to use when you want to modify the value of that particular string multiple
times like in a situation like a loop.
This would have a great performance impact.
How do you solve the problem.
One of the ways is to use string buffer string buffer is thread safe.
So it would bring it all overhead if you're not really looking at a story.
It's a version you can go for a string builder but you can look at this example here as a string buffer
I'm using a string buffer in sort of a string and appending to this string buffer always.
So this is a unit test which we ran.
So if you really want to look at that basic unit test you can do that.
There's a test called String what a string buffer.
You can look this up on the Get depositary or if you have set it up locally you can look at it there
too.
So when we ran this test string buffer it Dooks point four seconds.
So it's less than half a second.
However when we ran this with the string it took 25 seconds.
That's a different off almost 50 times in performance.
So be careful when you're using strings for concatenation or doing any volume modifications on the string.
Make sure that you're not doing it in a loop or repeat that kind of scenario.
OK.
Now let's get to the favorite question.
Some of the favorite question actually what is the difference between string and string buffer.
I guess in most of the less experienced Jawa do of use this would be a standard question.
The most important fact is is that the objects of type String immutable.
You cannot change the value once a object is created.
However string buffer you would be able to change the value of that particular object like in a situation
where we saw before where a value of a string is modified multiple times then string buffer has both
benefits but string and string buffer at a safe and string buffer is actually implemented by using synchronized
keyword on all the methods.
So using the signalized keyword is what makes string buffered thread safe.
So even though you're changing the value of the string buffer because we use string synchronized keyword
on the method they cannot be concurrently modified by different threads.
So thereby by if the other favorite question is string builder What's the string buffer.
It's basically string builder.
It's not thread safe.
So that means if same object is referenced by two different thread then this thread safety is not really
guaranteed.
So that's the main difference between string builder and string buffer.
A few of the utility methods in string you can look at them in here.
So there are a few things on the screen lent to string equal Soknacki substring and all that kind of
stuff.
One of the things you might want to do is dig the string was a string buffer example.
As I said before all the examples I don't get her repository Jawaid to your questions and answers so
you can just look at a good repository in 28 minutes you should be able to easily find the job interview
questions and answers to poetry and you would find a class called string or a string buffer in there
so you can run this test.
This would give you a good example of the performance between string and string buffer.
You can add string builder as well and see what kind of a performance difference it brings in.
There's a simple test with no threading kind of thing.
So debarment might be the same posting referencing but you can really play around with it.
And the other example we would recommend for you to look at is the string example Sustrans spend some
time with it.
It has a lot of examples of string.
And you can try and understand the string thing and the there are the first two exercises for you as
part of this course until next step.
But by.